No, we would not want that, we only need to load that HTML for this specific one that you choose or
click on.
So what I'm going to do is just create my own totally new custom rest API endpoint.
Let me show you how we can set that up.
So in our text editor jump into featured Professor P and within our construct function, let's add a
new action.
So add action semicolon.
The action hook name is reste API init.
The second argument is a function.
So let's use the array callable syntax, square brackets, dollar sign.
This second argument is just a method name that will create in a minute from now.
Let's call it Proff HTML.
OK, now let's just go create a function with that name.
So right below the construct function we could say function proff, html parentheses, curly brackets.
Inside the body of this function we would use the word press function, call the register, rest, root,
parentheses, semicolon in the parentheses.
We're going to give it three arguments.
The first argument is sort of the namespace inversion portion of the euro.
So let's say string, let's call it featured Professor Slash V1.
And then for the second argument, this is the actual specific name for this one root.
So let's say get HTML, OK, and then the third argument is just an array of options.
So array parentheses, we can dropdown quotes, let's give it a property called Method's Arrow Symbol.
And this is our way of saying that you can't send a post request to this endpoint, but you can send
a gett request.
So all uppercase WP underscore reste underscore server colon colon readable comma.
Let's have one more option.
So quotes callback error symbol and then we just give it a function that we want to run when someone
actually visits the endpoint.
So let's use the array.
Colleyville Syntax dollar sign this.
Let's make up a method name.
How about Get Proff html.
Now let's just go create a function with this names right below that we can say function, get proff,
html parentheses, curly brackets and inside this function we just return something that will be sent
along as JSON and believe it or not, but just a single string of text is valid JSON.
So just for a quick test, while we're connecting the dots, let's just return string a text, semicolon
and let's just say maybe heading level for close that out.
And just for a quick test.
Hello.
From our End Point, let's give this a save and now let's practice actually visiting our endpoint.
So maybe in a new tab or just on a tab where you're viewing the front end of your website, you've got
the base part of your local dev domain, and then we don't want anything after that.
So basically, just your homepage, you orell at the very end of that, add on slash, WP Dash, JSON
slash.
And just a moment ago we chose the name of a featured professor slash v one slash git html.
Now Google Chrome might get confused, but it will offer you this option.
Did you mean to go to and then you can just click that link and you should see just this.
Right, a string of text with that heading level for cool.
Now you might notice that we didn't manually type this back slash here.
That's OK.
This is just another example of WordPress making our lives easier so you can give WordPress HTML and
it will automatically backslash for you.
So, for example, on the opening heading level for TAG, you could even say class equals test.
And if you refresh, WordPress is smart enough that when it's converting that into JSON, it automatically
adds the backslash before the quotes inside.
This is great.
Let's move forward.
So we need a way to have this endpoint be for one specific professor.
So check this out at the very end of this.
You are I want you to add on questionmark and now we could make up any name, but let's call it Prof.
I d equals and I'm going to say forty three just as a quick example.
So we push enter and nothing happens.
But now I want to show you how to access that value from within our P.
So back in our code within our profe html function in these parentheses, if we include a parameter
you can call it anything but I'll call it data.
So dollar sign data.
Well now we can look inside that for any.
Neutral variables, and so, for example, we would look for Prof.
I.D. and now within our function, check this out, we can access that incoming number with just dollar
sign data, look inside it, square brackets because it's an array.
But then we could just say quotes, Prof.
ID.
So now that we know how to access this numeric number for a specific professor post, we can just feed
that into our generate professor HTML function.
Let me show you what I mean.
So let's give ourselves a clean slate.
You can completely empty out the body of this function and just type this in with me return and then
we're going to call that generate professor HTML function that we built in our last lesson.
So my colon and then you just give it an ID.
Right, just like we did previously for the front end.
Now instead of hard coding this to forty three, we just pull in the same data, look inside it for
proff.
I said if I save this and test it out, cool.
So I knew that number 43 was my ID for bark's a lot.
If you want to test this out for yourself, you can just go find the ID for one of your professor posts.
So for example, click into professors and then if you actually click on one.
So I'll click on Bachs a lot up in your address bar, you can see that it says post equals forty three.
Now your number will be different, but whatever that number is, just test that number out for this
endpoint.
You rl when you use the right number here you should see the correct HTML for that professor.
So now all we need to do is call this endpoint you neutral from within our react component.
Right.
Let's get back to the task at hand.
If I edit a blog post and scroll down to this block type.
Right.
We just want to display and render that HTML right here.
So let's jump into our REACT component.
So in our plugin folder, in the Sarsae folder, indexed JS up at the very top, the first thing I want
to do is import a few things after these to import lines, let's say import curly brackets from and
just the official react package in the curly brackets, let's say use state comma use effect.
OK, I do want to import one more things on a new line say import.
We don't need any curly brackets this time.
Just API fetch from string urtext at symbol WordPress slash api Dasch fetch.
OK, now let's go use these three tools that we imported.
So down in our edit component, the first thing I want to do is create a piece of state that will keep
track of our each HTML preview value.
So when you very first come to this page and there hasn't been enough time to actually perform the network
request that loads the HTML, well, first the piece of state would be empty.
And then once we actually fetch that HTML, we can update the piece of state and then our can just react
to that piece of state changing.
So let's do this up at the very top of our edit component body.
Let's say new line const square brackets.
The preview.
I'm just making these names up, but the preview comma set the preview.
So I'm just calling the HTML area a preview and then that will equal use state and just give it an initial
or default value of just an empty string.
OK, from here now we need to think of an event that we want to react to.
So, for example, I'm going to say any time that this value of your ID number changes.
So when I change it to this item, we would want to respond to that event.
Or if you change it again, we would respond to that event by fetching new, fresh HTML for that particular
ID.
So in react a nice way to do something any time a specific piece of data changes is to use something
called a use effect.
So right below this used state line we just set up, I would say use effect, we're going to call it,
we're going to give it to arguments.
The first argument is a function that you want to run, so let's give it an ESX arrow function.
We don't need any parameters such as parentheses, arrow symbol, curly brackets.
The second argument is an array, or we should say it's a list of things that you're watching for changes.
So whatever we include in this list, if it changes, then react.
We'll call our function and it will do that every time it changes.
So the only thing that we need to watch for changes in this case would be props, dot attributes, dot
proff.
I'd say anytime the professor id that you're interested in changes.
We want to fetch a new version of the HTML.
So from here, it's as simple as just performing an HTTP or network request.
Now, here's the cool part.
We don't even need axios or query, nor do we need to use the browsers, fetch tool manually ourselves,
where you have to have an extra promise chain and you have to pass the JSON yourself.
Instead of any of that, we can just use a WordPress tool called API Fetch.
Now it is going to return a promise and instead of using the DOT then syntax, I like to use the async
awaked.
We do need a little bit of a workaround though, because you cannot give use effect an asynchronous
function directly.
However, the workaround is very simple.
Inside our aero function here we can just define or create an async function and then just immediately
call it so we could say async function.
You can name it whatever you want, I'll just name it, go or start parentheses, curly brackets.
And now inside this function, we can use the await syntax.
So let's say const response equals a wait.
And then I'm just going to await the results of the WordPress tool that's called API Fetch.
So in these parentheses, you just give it an object inside there you can dropdown, we just give it
to properties.
So Path Colon instead of quotes, let's use back ticks so we can do something dynamic.
Now we don't need to spell out the entire https and then our domain WordPress will assume the beginning
portion of the URL.
So if we look at this tab, WordPress will assume our domain as well as JSON.
So we would just begin with the slash featured professor all the way to the end.
So to save typing, you can just copy and paste this.
So you start with the slash, go to the end, we can paste that in here.
Now, the reason we used back tactics is we would want this number to be dynamic.
So get rid of this hardcoded number instead, say dollar sign curly brackets and then just use whatever
ID they've currently selected.
So that's props, dot attributes, dot proff ID at the end of this line, let's say comma, we want
one other property, let's say method and just give it a value of git.
Right.
We want to send a get request now because we included the word a here JavaScript will not move on to
the next line of code until this is actually had a chance to complete.
However, right after this line still in the async function, once it does complete, we would just
want to update our piece of state.
So I would just say set the preview parentheses to call it and just give it response.
Right.
The JSON that our endpoint returned.
OK, before I forget, we've defined our asynchronous function now, right below that, we would actually
want to be sure to actually call it or execute it.
So right here, just actually call go.
OK, now all that's left to do is actually use the preview down in our X.
So if we scroll down at the very bottom of our X, we have this Div with just this placeholder text.
Let's get rid of the placeholder text and then you can have the div sit on a single line.
Now our first instinct would be to go inside the div, have curly brackets and say the preview.
However, this will not work.
React would just display the string of text instead of actually rendering it and displaying it as real
html react.
Does this for our own safety, for our own good.
But in this situation I do trust the incoming HTML.
So here's what we can do.
Let's have the div be truly empty once again.
And then on the opening div tag we can say and this is a very specific and odd looking prop name, but
it's dangerously set.
Inner HTML equals curly brackets to do something dynamic, then another set of curly brackets because
we give it an object with a property with the precise name of underscore, underscore, HTML and then
Colen, we just give it a value.
So our value that we're giving it is the preview.
So as you can guess by this prop name that react makes us use ninety nine times out of 100 react really
truly does not want us rendering HTML this way.
Write react, wants to escape things for you, keep things safe and it wants you to build the template
with James X and insert dynamic values with curly brackets.
And this sort of circles back to the topic at the start of this video of why I was defensive of using
HTML templates, because you do need to do something a bit awkward like this.
Inside of react, however, at the end of the day, I don't mind because I do trust the incoming HTML.
Obviously, you would never do this with user generated code that could be malicious.
Anyways, let's go ahead and save this and give it a test.
So if we refresh and if I scroll back down to that blacktip cool.
There is the preview.
Let me zoom out a little bit.
Dr. Musella, if I change it to Bachs a lot on the fly, it performs that new request for Rogerson.
Perfect.
Really quick, unrelated detail.
I'm noticing that this says name teaches instead of the actual professor name here.
If you wanted to fix that, you could just go into our file in the ANC folder named Generate Professor
HTML.
For me, it's down around line number twenty one.
So the word name here, you could just substitute that out with their actual name.
So just going to be say the title, give that a save if I refresh.
Cool, Dr. Miaows A lot teaches blank blank, however, that does indirectly bring us to a topic of
security.
For example, what if the title for this post contained malicious code?
Let me explain.
You can do this with me.
Go edit one of your professor posts.
So, for example, I'll edit Dr. Miaows a lot and up on the main title field.
What if at the end of the name you say script tag, closing script tag inside you say alert.
Hello, close out the quotes, close out the parentheses, semicolon.
Now if I update this and go view the front end for a blog post that has a featured professor of Dr.
Miaows a lot.
Watch what happens when I refresh that JavaScript code actually executed.
Now, this is and isn't a big deal.
If a malicious user had written that, we'd be in huge trouble.
However, the admin or editor of the site wrote it, so we're not worried.
This is actually a tricky situation with no right answer, though, because it is a best practice to
have your front end escape content, even if it's from a trusted user.
And while it's true that your title would really never have a legitimate reason to include HTML in it,
well, your actual body content, we do absolutely want to let the owner of the website have maybe a
strong or M tag in there.
So really it's up to you whether you would want to escape that HTML.
Personally, I want to allow HTML in this content, but I do want to show you what you could do as an
option.
Instead of just using the title, you could instead say echo escape HTML and give that instead of that
title, get the title.
So if I save that and refresh, well, we still see the alert because we're using the title here and
here, but that middle copy now notice that JavaScript is not actually executing.
It's been escaped.
So while you can see it visually, it's not a threat.
So that's one option.
Or you could use a function instead called WP strip all tags if I try that and refresh.
Cool, you can see it just removes any code inside of tags whatsoever, so it's up to you.
But that is something I wanted you to be aware of because we were using the dangerously set inner HTML
within REACT.
And you really don't want to be doing that in react unless you trust the incoming code, which in this
case we do, that is going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our very next lesson, we're going to work on creating the metadata that sets up the relationship
between a blog post and a professor setting up that metadata is the key to being able to show the relationship
from the professor screen.
Right.
So if I click this link to view the miaows a lot permalink page down at the bottom, we would want to
display a list of any blog posts that have featured this professor.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you in the next lesson.